It is absolutely key that
you understand what the phases
of a product development or business
model in a start-up are.
And eye, I speak of development
phases, are the phases related
to the business, because there
are other phases that are related
to how to finance that development,
we will see them, and
they have to go alongside.
These phases, what they describe us, are
landmarks.
That is, they are milestones of advance,
they are milestones of learning, it
is not a matter of time, it can take
you more or less time, or it may
be that you never reach even the first
of the milestones.
These are milestones that we are
achieving, we are validating,
and that allow us to make the
company more valuable and the risk
less.
When a start-up, which is an idea,
is born in the founder's head,
well, because the risk is very high,
because you have to prove everything,
and the company is worth nothing,
but as we move forward, the
thing turns.
To explain the relationship between lean
start-up and these phases, and the development
phases, I like to explain
it like this.
Lean start-up is a method that
helps us and teaches us to innovate.
How is?
Well, with a cycle in which it tells
you that every time you have to
innovate or validate something,
what you have to do is identify
the hypotheses and do very quick
experiments to measure and to evolve.
So I advance it.
Stage to Stage.
But the Lean start-up book doesn'
t really illustrate what the
different stages are.
This is complemented by
us mainly through another methodology
called customer development,
customer development.
Well, the stages are drawn
in this way in this picture,
instead of horizontally,
we draw them vertically, and we
will go see one by one, and we
start with the first of the
landmarks.
When a company is born, the
first of the milestones, your
first goal is to problem, solution
fit.
There is a difference between the problem
and the solution.
And it is a pre-phase, it is an embryonic
phase in which the strategic
approach must be discovered.
Find out why you don't have any
idea.
If you see it on the link, both of them are like that.
We have to validate
if there is actually a problem,
a problem that people are
willing to pay for that
problem, to solve it.
And, in addition, first is the problem,
but then it is the solution, because
we have to validate that your
proposal, the technology you propose
or the service you propose
actually gives the solution to that
problem, because in many cases
it is not so.
There are many entrepreneurs
who have an idea and that is true
that this problem can exist.
I don't know, solving parking in
the big cities, for example, is a
huge problem that still really
no one has given some very powerful
solution, but that when someone
gives as a solution parking
in the big cities or reduce
traffic, because it will
have an immense business.
Therefore, we have to validate the
problem, we have to validate the solution
and at that point we reach problem,
solution fit, which is the first
of the milestones of advance,
the first of the stages.
And we have to get here by
spending as little money as possible
and as little time as possible, using
the Lean startup methodology,
as much as possible.
The second of the milestones of
the goals we have to pursue
and is a very important word
that you have to understand very
well is product market fit.
When do you reach product market fit?
Well, you reach product market
fit when you can validate
your business model more comprehensively.
How do you value it?
Well, because it turns out that at
that time there is already enough
people who have bought you, that
you have checked that they provide
value, that they are not discounted,
that other people recommend it,
you have checked that you
can reach them through channels
that are profitable to you, etc.
Mark Andresen, a product market
fit designer, said that when
you reach product market fit,
you can feel it, you know.
It's like, I compare it to if you'
re in love, if you're in
love you know, because when you
reach product market fit and suddenly
things improve because you've given
up something that people want
to buy, well, sales are shot,
you get a quote from customers,
even the press contacts you because
you've given up something
new, etc.
At this point, to reach the product
market fit, the most convenient
thing is, we need a minimum
viable product, we need,
we no longer have to do small
experiments, what we have to
do is, we have to have a product
with which people can interact,
that we can buy, that we
can have relationship with
customers, we have to validate
the entire business model
in this way.
Well, we've already reached product
market fit, very good news because
a lot of companies never get
it, they're never able to
build something people want
to buy.
And the next step, the next step,
is to prepare ourselves to grow
and find out what is our growth engine.
Why is?
I will illustrate it.
Until now you have something that
you know works, you have something
that you know people want to
buy, there are enough customers
that have bought and you have validated
first-hand that they like, but
really from here to have a very
large company, there are many
challenges, there are many
things to validate along the
way yet, you have to validate the
growth engine, you have to validate
what will be the channels,
the mechanisms that will make
you have a very large company.
Mierson Ellis is the growth hacker
by excellence, in fact he is the
father of the term also, of growth
hacking, he draw us in another way,
he draw us a few simpler phases
and does it with a pyramid, he tells
us that first you have to reach product
market fit that we have already
reached and then you have to
prepare to grow and finally what
you do is to grow or scale and
also says that if this intermediate
phase of preparing to grow
you do well, the profitability you
will have is five times greater,
that if you start to grow, that
if you start to scale before
you prepare, before looking
for efficiency, efficiency
is the strategic approach
this phase.
How will we go through this phase?
Well, what we will do is start
validating especially the channels
through which we can reach
and seek that efficiency in terms
of maximizing the profitability
of each of those channels, because
with metrics, for example, such
as the customer, the extreme
value, less the cost of acquiring
customers.
Basically we have to look for our
way, we have to look for profitable
ways and I like to put several examples
so that you understand
it well.
One of them is, we have reached
product market fit, we have a
product that we are seeing that
works, a product that we are seeing
that people like, what happens is
that so far we have validated
it on a small scale, but we have
clear that it is something
potent what we have.
We have 10 million euros
on the table to grow.
Well, it is very possible that you
do not know what to do with those
10 million, because you do not
have the channels ready to grow, you
do not have, no, to start with
you do not have, because
imagine, delegations in other countries,
you do not have marketing channels
to invest 10 million euros, you
can not yet, you have to
prepare to grow.
And if, and if they force you to do so,
what would happen is that
you would waste the vast majority of
those 10 million because you are not ready.
I explain it this way too.
We have to, we have to cross this
forest and also we have to do
it running, because we are in
the next phase, is, is
growth, is scale, is grow a lot.
Well, if the forest is like that,
we will go very slowly, we will
not be able to do so, what we have
to do is find the way.
We have to find the channels where
we can put a lot of money to create
a very big company, because look
if, if the forest, if the panorama
we have in front of is this,
that here has found the
channels, well, because
we can go even in a car, we
can speed up a lot.
But this is something that needs to be worked on.
Well, what examples can you,
can I give you when you found it?
Well, when you reach product
market fit, you have customers,
the English start to grow, etc.,
but you have to start validating,
looking for more channels
of customer capture.
Maybe they are offline channels,
online channels, you have or have
to have delegations in other countries,
you have to do a lot of things
to grow very quickly.
The day you reach it, the day you
reach this milestone, the day
you validate that you can
really grow, the day you are sure
that if you put those 10 million
euros on the table, you can
invest them in the most efficient
way possible.
At that moment, what you have
to do is very clear.
At that point, what you have to do
is grow as much as possible, as much
as possible.
If you have done your duties well in the
previous phases, here what is needed
is to step the accelerator as much as possible.
If you don't, you're wrong,
because if you don't, others
will.
It is a real luck
to be in this situation.
If you have managed to reach product
market fit and subsequently validated
channels, of which you can grow
and also have the luck to raise
money, raise capital and have
enough capital to grow, what
you have to do is to step the
accelerator as much as possible
and turn your company
into something very valuable.
To scale globally if possible.
As I told you, it is very important
to understand the phases well and understand
the strategic approach well, what
you have to do in each of the mistakes
that there are, one of the most
common causes of death in startups,
not understanding this.
And I tell you one thing, if we ask
the CEOs of many companies, maybe
they don't even know, which
is a huge mistake.
We will look at the strategic approach.
If until you have absolutely
validated, you have reached
problem solution fit, problem
market fit and also validated
the channels through which you
can grow, the focus we have
to follow is the focus of looking,
is the focus of learning.
Wake up from the in startup that
tells us permanently we have to
be looking, we have to be learning
and once you've already given
up with the business model,
what you have to do is run.
They are very different strategic
perspectives and in fact business
and management in general what they
have always taught us is to
run and we have to break this scheme
because until we have the
business model absolutely validated,
that are those three phases
as I told you, until that moment
what we have to do is all our
head, all the focus, all the
effort of the company has to
be in finding that business
model, not in executing it
because you still don't know
what you have to execute.
Do not start doing something that
we have not yet validated.
On the other hand, as to how to
invest, well, because until you do
not find what the business model
is you have to be very cautious
with all the investment you make.
You don't have to spend, you don'
t have to spend a lot of money on
marketing, you don't have to spend
a lot of money on public relations,
you don't have to spend a lot
on creating brand or notoriety.
No, the only thing you have to do
is learn, it's to look for that
business model and when you get
it, when you reach all the milestones,
when you're sure you're already
ready to grow, here's what you
have to do at this time yes,
at this time what you have to
do is invest very aggressively,
as much as possible,
but why?
Because it is that you can do
it, because you have a product that
you like, because you validated that
customers are happy, that they do
not drop down and above you validated
those channels to be able to
put a lot of money.
What has to worry you?
What metrics do you have to
worry about in each of the stages?
Well, because in the initial
stages, until you have not validated
the business model in an integral
way, you do not have to worry
over sales or growth, you do not
have to worry about that, you
have to worry about the metrics
that Eric Rice recommended
us in the In Startup, you have
to worry, the metrics are representative
that allow you to make decisions,
that allow you to learn, because
the representative metrics
that the customer likes what
we are selling, the representative
metrics that the
channels are actually
profitable, etc.
So, until now don't worry
over sales, they're not important,
because as you focus on
growing, you won't
learn.
But once we have validated, that
we have reached all the milestones,
when we have to scale, then
here obviously yes, here the
most important thing is to grow
very quickly in sales,
in profits, etc.
This is a company where there is
no longer uncertainty and the metrics
and management approach must
be the traditional one.